---
title: Dad Tips
categories:
- Family
---

I'm no expert on this matter. In fact, I'd say I'm far from it. But clearly I'm doing an adequate, or even above adequate job. Some wisdom to share:



  1. Changing tables? Waste of time and money. First of all, changing a baby that is sideways in front of you is stupid. Second, you never take the baby to one of these changing things, you just change them. I insist on Mazie having her feet toward me to change the diaper.

  2. The crib in the baby's room? Try the crib in _your_ room. Today we moved the crib up into our room. The family bed is great, but going from that to a crib in her room, in another room, is too much. Crib goes to our room for a few months, then into her room. (Or so we think...)

  3. Mazie currently doesn't dig anyone but Mom holding her after around 7pm. Nothing to learn here, just that this stuff happens, it will change in a while.

  4. Stuff is everywhere, almost, and she's still not mobile yet! The [Intellitainer](http://www.fisher-price.com/fp.aspx?st=2011&e=detail&selcat=bgetn&pid=32073) has taken over the fireplace. And the great thing is, I don't really care.

  5. [This swing](http://www.fisher-price.com/fp.aspx?st=2001&e=detail&site=us&pid=30548&selcat=bgsw) is the most important thing in the world.

  6. Function over form. Who cares how it looks, it works.

  7. When the baby is melting down, and you _know_ Mom can make it better, but you really want to try, don't. The continued meltdown results in frustration for baby, you and Mom. Know when to fold 'em.

  8. Honda Odyssey. 'nuff said.

Feel free to add your own!
