---
title: Dead iMac G5
categories:
- Techie
tags:
- Apple
---

On Monday of this week I woke up and as I usually do after getting ready for the day went to sit down at the iMac that is off of our kitchen to check on email, visit some websites for news, etc. When I sat down I noticed that the iMac was off which seemed very strange. We don't turn our computers off and on top of that I had just two days prior [put a UPS on this computer]{% link _posts/2005/2005-03-19-gettin-jiggy-with-power.md %} so a power blip shouldn't have had any affect.

Not sure what was going on I hit the power button and the power indicator would light up for a fraction of a second and then turn off. Tried again, same thing. I wondered if this UPS was a problem so I plugged it straight into the wall, no go. This is not good but luckily it's still on warranty.

I did some searches and it seems like a failed power supply in a iMac G5 isn't terribly rare. At least it's common enough that Apple has posted [instructions for diagnosing this on your own](http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=300908). I followed the instructions and verified that I needed to take it to an Apple shop and get fixed.

I dropped it off at [FirstTech](http://www.firsttech.com/) that afternoon over lunch and they called back that very afternoon to verify the power supply was dead. Here is the classic part. Apple doesn't have any of these. Oh, and they don't know when they will get any in. So, I called just yesterday and the status is still the same. My wonderful, fancy and expensive G5 sits on a shelf awaiting a new power supply from Apple. They have no ETA.

Why is it that Apple cannot figure out supply chains? They _never_ have parts or enough of anything it seems. This has been a problem for them for years and years. Oh well, someday I will get my Mac back.
