---
title: Day 1
categories:
- Fitness
---

It seems that I always decide to start focusing on eating better and dropping weight on Mondays. More on that later.

Over the course of the last two years I've had a really hard time keeping my weight under control. For those that have known me for a long time you know that I used to be a "big guy" tipping the scales well over 300 lbs. I set a goal in 2000 that I was going to lose 100 lbs. It sounded a little crazy at the time, even to me, but I knew that if I set that goal clearly and publicly I would stick to it. And I did. It took about 10 months of very focused and dedicated effort and I got there.

I stayed in a range of 20 lbs for quite a while. Then things got disrupted. In a one month period I went back to work, got engaged and bought a house with my then fiance. Over the last two years particularly my weight has trended back up. It would go up for a while, then go down, then back up. As you can expect, it would always go up a little bit more than it ever went down.

Now I find myself at a point were I need to reassert more discipline and focus. I know what I need to do, I just need to do it. It's Monday. It's not a great time going into the holidays but there never is a good time. There is always an excuse why you need to push this stuff off. November 8th sounds just as good as any.

This is where you all come in. I know myself and when I lost my weight before a big part of my success was telling others I was going to lose 100 lbs and then not failing on that. So, it's time I returned back to my "100 lb" weight which means less than 232 lbs. I need to drop around 40 lbs, we'll see for sure on Friday. This is going to happen. And I'm going to share it with all of you. Wether you like it or not. :-)

I expect two weeks that are pretty hard. Sugar withdrawal. Get used to exercising hard and regularly again, etc. Then it's just staying the course. In the past I've _always_ logged my food religiously when I've lost weight. I'm going to work hard not to do that. It's a crutch for me and I really don't need it. I think logging is tremendously powerful but at some point you know the data well enough and it's not needed.

That's enough for now. I'll check in again on Friday and get the numbers started.
